
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 27952-h.htm or 27952-h.zip:
      (https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/7/9/5/27952/27952-h/27952-h.htm)
      or
      (https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/2/7/9/5/27952/27952-h.zip)





Fairy Tales From Flowerland

Altemus' Fairy Tales Series

THE ENCHANTED CASTLE

A Book of Fairy Tales from Flowerland

Edited with an Introduction by

HARTWELL JAMES

With Forty Illustrations by John R. Neill







Philadelphia
Henry Altemus Company


      *      *      *      *      *

Altemus'
Illustrated
Fairy Tales Series

The Magic Bed
     A Book of East Indian Tales
The Cat and the Mouse
     A Book of Persian Tales
The Jeweled Sea
     A Book of Chinese Tales
The Magic Jaw Bone
     A Book of South Sea Islands Tales
The Man Elephant
     A Book of African Tales
The Enchanted Castle
     A Book of Tales from Flower Land

Fifty Cents Each

Copyright, 1906
By Henry Altemus

      *      *      *      *      *



INTRODUCTION

Every boy and girl--and for that matter every man and woman, too--
rejoices when the winter snows have vanished and the earth once more
puts on her beautiful dress of green, for then the flowers wake from
their sleep and clothe the earth with beauty.

Because all boys and girls love flowers, those of them who read this
book will be interested in the beautiful stories they have to tell,
loving them even more when they know something of their past history and
some of the events with which they are associated.

Hundreds of years ago, before clocks or watches were invented, people
used to tell the time by means of flowers, and

 "'Twas a lovely thought to mark the hours
     As they floated in light away,
  By the opening and the folding flowers
     That laugh to the summer's day."

One very old writer tells us that he knew of forty-six flowers by which
he could tell the time, and since then a great many more have been
discovered. These time-keepers open and shut their blossoms at exactly
the same time each day, and every hour of the day or night some flower
opens and closes its petals.

Then those who love fairies know that they have much to do with the
flowers, and while to some they may seem very trifling occupations--this
writing and reading about fairies--yet

  "Another sort there be, that will
    Be talking of the Fairies still;
    Nor never can they have their fill
        As they were wedded to them."

                                         H.J.



CONTENTS

The Enchanted Castle
The Fair Maids of February
The Loveless Youth
The Wind Flower
The Fate of Hyacinthus
St. Leonard and the Fiery Snake
A Fair Prisoner
The Ungrateful Traveler
The Star of Bethlehem
The Angel's Gift
The Holy Hay
The Search for Gold
The Flower Fairies



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"'You will come to the walls of an old castle'"
"'I am gathering them for Mother'"
"Slowly the great door opened"
"'The Key-flower will always admit you'"
"Hastened home to her mother"
"The skies were gray and cheerless"
"'Tell me why thou weepest'"
"The angel handed her the frail blossom"
"When the winter snows disappear"
"The monks were fond of planting the snowdrops"
"The boy did not return their love"
"The image in the water returned no answer"
"Zephyr cared not for Lady Flora"
"When the March winds blow"
"She is a capital weather-glass"
"They walked and drove together"
"Playing a game of quoits together"
"He had slain him with his own hand"
"With such returning spring"
"The country people warned him"
"He sank, exhausted, upon the steps"
"As they followed its winding course"
"But St. Leonard drew his sword"
"Shut up in the turret-chamber"
"In the disguise of a peddler"
"She fell into the court yard below"
"The sweet blossoms of a tiny flower"
"A great doorway in the rock"
"Once more upon the bleak mountain side"
"He could hear the voices of the priests"
"'The Star of Bethlehem' men call it"
"The bright messenger from heaven"
"Then she was tied to the stake"
"'Make me more lovely still'"
"The birds of the air came to him"
"A crown around the baby head"
"His bed was of fresh, sweet hay"
"They were struck with wonder"
"Hunted down like wild beasts"
"The Spaniards called them Marigolds"



THE ENCHANTED CASTLE



Fairy Tales from Flowerland

THE ENCHANTED CASTLE

"Primroses, the Spring may love them,
Summer knows but little of them."
              --_Wordsworth._

ONE day a little German girl was gathering flowers in the meadows, when
she was met by a wonderful maiden. Wondrous fair the maiden was to look
upon.

Her dress was of pale green velvet, with streaks of bright crimson. In
her hand she carried a basket of spring flowers, and on her head she
wore a wreath of pale yellow blossoms. Her voice was like the sound of
silver bells.

"Lisbeth, you are a good child," she said. "You have done your best to
help your sick mother, and now tell me, what are you going to do with
the flowers you are gathering?"

And the little girl replied, "I am gathering them for mother. She loves
the spring flowers, but she is too ill to gather them for herself, and
she cannot afford to buy them."

"I know that you are telling the truth," said the fairy. "Your mother is
sick and poor, and you want to help her. Now look at this, Lisbeth," she
continued, giving the child a blossom from her basket like those upon
her head, "this is a primrose. Take it, and as you walk along follow the
primrose blossoms until you come to the walls of an old castle.

"In the wall you will find a great doorway, covered all over with
flowers. Touch the lock gently with your 'key-flower'" pointing to the
primrose she had given her, "and the door will open so that you may
enter the enchanted castle. I will meet you there again."

Then the fairy vanished as suddenly as she had appeared, but the
astonished Lisbeth did as she had been told, and followed the primroses
on the banks until she reached the castle walls.

She soon found the door covered with flowers, and moving aside some of
the beautiful blossoms, she placed her "key-flower" upon the lock.
Slowly the great door opened, but Lisbeth was so surprised at what she
saw within that she was afraid to enter, and could only stand and look.

Great baskets hung from the roof of the house full of the pale yellow
blossoms; banks of them were heaped around the walls; while upon the
floor and tables stood vases of all shapes and sizes containing nothing
but primroses.

But in a few minutes she heard a sweet voice calling her, and on
entering she saw once more her fairy friend.

"Lisbeth," the fairy said, "come in and take what you like. Under those
sweet blossoms are chests containing gold, silver and jewels. You may
remove the flowers and open which you please. Take as much as you can
carry, and come again as often as you like. The 'key-flower' will always
admit you.

"But there is one thing you must remember. You must not take away a
single blossom, but every flower must be replaced where you find it. So
long as you observe this rule you will always find an entrance into this
home of wealth and treasure, but if you disobey punishment will quickly
follow."

As she spoke these words the fairy again vanished, and Lisbeth, seeking
among the flowers, found the treasure of which she had been told.
Filling her apron with gold and silver, she replaced the blossoms she
had removed, and hastened home to her mother.

And great was the delight of the poor sick woman, for now she and her
little daughter need be no longer poor. Many and many a time they
visited the enchanted castle; and ever since Lisbeth told the story to
her friends, the boys and girls of Germany have called the primrose the
"key-flower."

They believe that as long as they are good and obedient it will unlock
for them the door of the enchanted castle, where treasures of wealth and
happiness are to be found.



THE FAIR MAIDS OF FEBRUARY



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE FAIR MAIDS OF FEBRUARY

"The frail snowdrop
Born of the breath of Winter."
         --_Barry Cornwall._

A GREAT many years ago, when Adam and Eve were turned out of Eden for
their disobedience, Eve looked out over the bare and desolate earth and
wept for the beauty she had lost.

Before this it had always been summer-time. The sun had always shone,
and Eve had breathed the fragrance of the flowers, day after day, and
gathered them at her own sweet will.

But now it was winter, and all was changed. The trees stood bare and
leafless; no birds sang in their branches; no sweet blossoms raised
their heads to catch the sun's warm rays. The skies were gray and
cheerless, and ever the soft white snow kept falling silently, "like the
footsteps of angels descending upon earth."

But the good God in Heaven saw Eve sit weeping, and looked down on her
with pitying eyes, and turning to one of the bright angels who stood by,
ready to do His bidding, He said:

"See how yonder poor woman sits weeping. Go swiftly and do what thou
canst to comfort her," and the angel spread her wings and sped earthward
with the falling snow.

"Tell me why thou weepest," she said, as she placed her hand gently upon
the head of the weeping woman.

And Eve replied, "I weep because the earth is bare and desolate, and
there is nought that is beautiful to be seen. I pray thee tell me, if
thou canst, where are the flowers that I love so well. Tell me, shall I
ever see them more?"

The angel smiled, and stretching out her hand to catch the falling
flakes of snow, said:

"Is not this beautiful? So white, so pure, so gentle. It is the covering
which your Heavenly Father in His great love spreads over the cold
earth."

And even as she spoke the snowflake in her hand took form and budded and
blossomed into a pure white flower, which hung its dainty head and
trembled as if afraid to look upon the world into which it had been
born.

Then Eve dried her tears and broke forth into smiles as the angel handed
her the frail blossom, saying:

"It is a snowdrop. Take it, Eve, for it is a promise of better things to
come. Never again doubt your Father's love. You have only to wait, and
when the winter's snows have gone and the summer sun shines once more,
the flowers will bloom again as beautiful as ever."

Then Eve watched the angel return to Heaven, until the gleam of her
silver wings was no longer to be seen. She still carried in her hand his
tiny gift and as she turned away she saw that where the angel's feet had
rested the snow had melted away, and on the green grass beneath was
growing a lovely cluster of snowdrops.

And every year since then, when the winter snows disappear, these sweet
forerunners of the spring are found in the woods and dells, bringing a
message of hope and a promise of brighter days to come.

Many years afterwards the monks were fond of planting the snowdrop in
their beautiful gardens. Not only did it teach them a lesson of faith
and trust, but its sweet white blossoms were regarded as an emblem of
purity. And poets have always loved to sing the praises of this, the
earliest flower of spring.



THE LOVELESS YOUTH


Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE LOVELESS YOUTH


"Daffodils, that come before the swallow dares,
And take the winds of March with beauty."
                  --_Shakespeare._

YEARS and years ago the River-god wedded a beautiful water-nymph. Their
son, Narcissus, was such a lovely boy to look upon that all who saw him
loved him; but the boy did not return their love, for he was full of
vanity and thought only of himself.

Now as he grew to manhood Narcissus became more and more beautiful, and
each woodland fairy or water-nymph would gladly have become his bride.

At last a gentle nymph named Echo fell in love with him, and since he
would not look at her, or give heed to her soft words, she pined away
until nothing but her voice remained.

Even to this day her plaintive cry may be heard among the hills
answering back again the voices of those who laugh and sing. But now the
nymphs were angry with the loveless youth, and prayed the gods to punish
him for his heartlessness.

So one day when he was wandering in the fields, they caused him to see
his own features reflected in the clear waters of a crystal pool.

Now Narcissus did not know that it was his own face which smiled up at
him from the depths of the pool, but took it to be that of some lovely
water-nymph, and full of love and admiration he determined to win her
for his bride.

But the image in the water returned no answer to his loving words, and
did but mimic his every act and movement, till at last, in despair, he
sat down by the water's edge and wept bitter tears of disappointed love.

And there he sat, day by day, till he grew pale and thin, and at last,
like poor Echo, he pined away and died.

Then on the border of the lake, where his dead body lay, there sprang up
clusters of golden blossoms. Daffodils we call them, but the gods called
them "Narcissus," in memory of the loveless youth.

And beautiful they were to look upon; but there was something missing,
for as Narcissus shed no love around his path through life, so the
flowers which bear his name shed no fragrance upon the air.



THE WIND FLOWER


Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE WIND FLOWER

"The coy Anemone, that ne'er uncloses
Her lips, until they're blown on by the wind."
                         --_H. Smith._

FLORA, Queen of all the flowers, fell in love with Zephyr, the
West-wind, whose gentle breezes fanned her favorite blossoms, cooling
them when the fierce rays of the sun fell hot upon them. But Zephyr
cared not for Lady Flora.

Zephyr loved a gentle nymph, who returned his affection, but ere she
could become his bride Flora changed her into a plant whose pale
blossoms shine and twinkle in the woods like stars on a dark night.

Now this fair nymph was beloved not only by Zephyr, the gentle
West-wind, but by Boreas, the cold, rough North-wind, and it happened
that the time at which she became a flower was at that season when
"the North-wind doth blow," so Boreas had her in his power.

And then to punish her for bestowing her love upon another, he blew
roughly upon her and scattered her delicate petals upon the ground. Then
the gods, because she was beloved by the winds, called her Anemone, the
wind-flower.

Every year when the March winds blow she opens her dainty blossoms, and
every year Boreas revenges his unrequited love by shattering and
destroying her beauty.

But the gentle Anemone returns good for evil, for she loves the wind,
and opens her soft pink and white petals when the March breezes blow
loud and shrill.

The poets call her "Child of the Wind," and country people tell us she
is a capital weather-glass, for when the wind drops and rain clouds
begin to gather she knows that rain is coming.

Gentle, loving little flower, "Waiting for the breathing of the wind," we
can all have a lesson from you. Why not be like the Anemone, and when
others use you roughly, seek not revenge, but rather give good for evil.



THE FATE OF HYACINTHUS



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE FATE OF HYACINTHUS

"His polish'd limbs, by strange enchantment's power,
Shoot into bud and blossom into flower."
                     _--Ovid._

ONE day when Apollo, the Sun-god, was driving in his chariot across the
land of Greece, he saw in the palace gardens of the King of Sparta a
beautiful boy at play.

No sooner did the Sun-god set ryes upon the king's son than he loved him
and desired to have him for his own. He quickly won the boy's
affections, and the two were like father and son, so happy were they in
their love for one another.

They walked and drove together, and played at merry games in the king's
gardens, while Apollo lavished upon the boy gifts rich and costly, for
he thought nothing too good for his beautiful Hyacinthus.

So all went well for quite a time, until Zephyr, the West-wind, who also
loved the boy, grew jealous of his evident preference for the Sun-god.

He tried by all means in his power to win the love of Hyacinthus, but
the youth took no heed, and in spite of the West-wind's gentle words and
tender, soft caresses, he continued to love Apollo best.

Then Zephyr became angry and jealous. Day by day he watched the two
friends, and waited his opportunity for revenge.

Now it happened one bright spring morning that Apollo and Hyacinthus
were playing a game of quoits together. The boy's merry laugh rang
through the clear air and reached the ears of Zephyr, who was hiding in
the branches of a tree close by.

An angry look passed over his face as he exclaimed, "He shall die.
Rather than give him up to Apollo, I will cause his death!"

At that very moment Apollo raised his arm and threw his quoit. Straight
as a dart it sped, until a strong gust of wind, raised for the purpose
by the angry Zephyr, changed its course, so that it struck Hyacinthus
upon the head and killed him.

And now the revenge of the West-wind was complete, for not only had
Apollo lost the object of his love, but he had slain him with his own
hands.

Then the Sun-god was frantic with grief, and, casting himself upon the
body of his favorite, he wept loud and long. "Oh! my beloved," he cried,
"come back, come back to me! woe, woe, woe is me!"

But nothing could restore the boy to life again. There was but one thing
he could do, and in order that the memory of his darling might remain
fresh and fragrant among men, he changed the beautiful but lifeless form
into a sweet and lovely flower. So year by year, with each returning
spring, the Hyacinths reappear and spread a rich carpet over the woods
and dells, reminding us of the ill-fated youth whose life was sacrificed
to "the green-eyed monster," jealousy.



ST. LEONARD AND THE FIERY SNAKE



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
ST. LEONARD AND THE FIERY SNAKE

"A little monitor presents her page
Of choice instruction, with her snowy bells!
The Lily of the Vale."

HUNDREDS of years ago there was a vast forest in England, wherein lurked
all manner of wild beasts and loathsome reptiles. The trees grew thick
and tall, but beneath them the earth was brown and bare, for no grass or
flower could grow within the gloomy forest.

Now at this time there lived a good and holy knight named Saint Leonard,
and it so happened that as he journeyed through the land, seeking how he
might do good and help his fellow-men, that he came in the course of his
wanderings to the borders of the great forest.

The country people whom he met warned him against attempting to
penetrate its depths, and said to him, "The forest is haunted with evil
things, which no man shall encounter and live to tell the tale."

Now Saint Leonard did not know what fear was, and persisted on going
into the perilous forest. So he left them and entered the gloomy wood,
and before he had gone far he saw coming towards him a terrible monster
in the form of a fiery snake.

On it came, breathing out flames of fire, and preparing to coil itself
around the brave knight, whom it would have crushed to death in its
fierce embrace.

But Saint Leonard drew his sword and prepared to engage in a deadly
struggle with the monster. For three long days and nights they fought,
until on the morning of the fourth day the evil beast lay wounded and
dying at the feet of the victorious knight.

With one stroke of his sword he severed the head of the snake from its
body, and then turned to retrace his steps towards the village he had
left.

The dying shrieks of the fiery snake had so terrified the other evil
inhabitants of the forest that they had all taken flight, most of them
in their great haste falling headlong into the ocean on the shores of
the great forest.

But the knight had been sorely wounded in the fray and blood-drops
marked his way through the trackless forest.

At length he reached the village and sank, exhausted and senseless, upon
the steps of the nearest cottage. The villagers thought he had returned
only to die, but after a time he opened his eyes, and in a few days he
was strong enough to tell his wondrous tale.

Then, indeed, the villagers were filled with astonishment, and a party
of them set off to see if the knight's story was true. To their great
surprise, when they reached the borders of the forest, there lay before
them a sunlit path strewn with pure white blossoms.

As they followed its winding course, they found that wherever the blood
of the wounded knight had fallen, lovely "Lilies of the Valley" had
sprang up. On and on they went, until they came to the spot where the
death-blow had been given.

The body of the hideous monster had disappeared, but all around, the
sweet, fragrant lilies grew in lovely clusters, and from their tiny
bells came sweet music, repeating to the astonished villagers the story
of the triumph of good over evil, love over hate, right over might.



A FAIR PRISONER


Fairy Tales from Flowerland
A FAIR PRISONER

"The sweetest flower
That decks the golden breast of May."
         --_Langhorne._

SOME four or five hundred years ago there stood upon the banks of the
River Tweed, in Great Britain, a grand and stately castle.

It was enclosed by high walls, and its gates were guarded day and night
by soldiers, for these were warlike times, and an enemy might be lurking
near, watching his opportunity to make a raid upon the owner's property.

At one corner of the castle was a high tower, in the topmost chamber of
which was imprisoned a beautiful maiden, the only daughter of the
chieftain who owned the castle.

And not far away stood another grand old castle, the lord of which was
her father's greatest enemy, whose only son had dared to ask the
maiden's hand in marriage.

Very terrible to see was the chieftain's anger when his child confessed
her love for the son of his enemy; and since she would not give him up,
or listen to the words of other suitors, he shut her up in the
turret-chamber, where she could hold no communication with the outer world.

Day after day this stern father climbed the steep staircase and bid the
maiden renounce her love. But the poor girl remained faithful, and
continued a prisoner.

And what of her lover? Had he deserted her? No indeed; he thought of her
day and night, and was busy forming plans for her escape.

In the disguise of a peddler he came to offer his wares for sale at the
castle, and by means of rich gifts he bribed the maid who waited upon
his betrothed to convey to her a stout silken cord, by which she should
descend from the turret-window.

There he would await her, with horses, outside the castle walls, and
together they would ride to the nearest church and be wedded without
delay.

At last the appointed day came. In the gathering twilight the maiden saw
her lover's signal, and fastening the cord to the bars of the window she
began the perilous descent.

But, alas, for the hopes of the youthful pair! Making too great haste to
accomplish her descent, her trembling hands missed their hold of the
ropes and she fell, bruised, bleeding, and dying, into the courtyard
below. Then in the words of an old song:

    "Love in pity to the deed,
       And her loving luckless speed,
       Twined her to this plant we call
       Now the 'Flower of the Wall.'"

And ever since, upon old walls, and in the nooks and crannies of ruined
buildings, the golden wallflowers have bloomed, filling the air with
fragrance as they tell their story of faithful love.



THE UNGRATEFUL TRAVELER



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE UNGRATEFUL TRAVELER

"That blue and bright-eyed flow'ret of the brook,
Hope's gentle gem, the sweet forget-me-not."
           --_Coleridge._

ONCE a weary traveler, wandering alone on the steep side of a bare and
desolate mountain, came unexpectedly upon a tiny stream of water
trickling down between the rocks.

Following its course down the mountain side, he entered a wooded glen,
where the banks of the stream were covered with green grass, among which
he suddenly espied the sweet blue blossoms of a tiny flower.

For many days his path had lain across a rough and rugged country, where
no blade of grass or star-like blossom greeted his coming, so now he
eagerly gathered a handful of the pale blue flowers and tied them for
safety to the handle of his staff. Then as he turned to continue his way
he saw before him a great doorway in the rock, which opened to him of
its own accord.

Entering, he found himself in a magnificent home, where around him on
every side lay heaps of treasure--gold, silver, and rich raiment--while
fairy voices bid him help himself.

Hastily throwing aside his staff, and with it the "luck-flowers" which
he had gathered, he filled his pockets with jewels, and taking as much
treasure as he could carry in his arms he turned to retrace steps. As he
did so, a sweet voice sounded in his ear, crying, "Forget-me-not!
Forget-me-not!"

But the ungrateful traveler paid no attention t the cry, and as he left
the home the great door closed behind him with a crash.

Instantly he found himself once more upon the bleak mountain side. The
treasure which he had so greedily collected vanished from his grasp. Not
even his staff remained to him, for he had left it behind with the
"luck-flowers."

Then full of grief and disappointment, he continued his journey across
the lonely mountain; but though he sought it far and near he never again
found the precious "luck-flower," without which he could not gain an
entrance to the fairy cave.

Thus was his ingratitude punished; and the sweet forget-me-not growing
by the river-side contains a lesson for all who gather it, bidding them
ever remember the "Great Giver of all Good Gifts."



THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM

"Stars, that in earth's firmament do shine."
                    --_Longfellow._

A GOOD and holy man sat down to rest one evening beneath the shade of
the palm-tree in a far Eastern country, far away from home and friends.

The sun was sinking in the west, the air was hot and sultry, and all
around him grew strange and wondrous plants and flowers.

It was a beautiful land, but the stranger's heart was sad within him. He
had traveled far in order to carry the story of "Jesus and His love"
into heathen lands, but here, among the followers of the "false
prophet," none would listen to his tale. Even now as he sat beneath the
palm-tree, the spires of the Mohammedan mosques gleamed white in the
distance, and he could hear the voices of the priests as they chanted
their evensong.

"How ever can I serve my Master in such a land as this!" exclaimed the
holy man.

"All around me seems to brood the spell of an unholy influence; even the
very flowers have taken part in heathen rites and ceremonies.

"Help me, Lord, for I am very weak," and the stranger bowed his head in
prayer.

Just then a thrill of hope and joy passed through his sinking heart, for
there in the green grass at his feet were the familiar star-like
blossoms of a tiny plant.

"The Star of Bethlehem" men call it, because of its resemblance to the
bright messenger from heaven which, years ago, led the shepherds of
Bethlehem to the birthplace of the infant Saviour.

And many and many times had the traveler gathered its pure white
blossoms beside his own cottage door, and now, as he saw it growing
contentedly beneath the shadow of those pagan plants, his soul was
filled with fresh courage. Here in a strange land the little flower told
the story of the Saviour's birth, and its presence seemed to shed a ray
of light and hope around.

Cheered and strengthened, the holy man went on his way, ready once more
to fulfil his labor of love, and to proclaim the good tidings of
salvation to all who would hear.



THE ANGEL'S GIFT



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE ANGEL'S GIFT

"Rose! thou art the sweetest flower
That ever drank the amber shower."
       --_Moore._

MORE than a thousand years ago, in the city of Bethlehem, a gentle
maiden was accused by her enemies of wicked deeds, for which she was
condemned to die. But the maiden was innocent; and as she was led out to
be burned, she prayed to God to prove her innocence.

Then she was tied to the stake, and the faggots around her were set on
fire, but to the astonishment of the bystanders they would not burn, and
as the flames died out the stake to which the innocent maid was fastened
became a tree, bearing red and white roses.

They were the first roses ever seen on earth, said the people, and never
before had such lovely flowers been seen.

It is said that not long after the angel who takes care of the flowers
in God's beautiful garden, sprinkling them with dew in the early morn,
fell asleep one warm summer day beneath the shade of a rose tree.

Awaking refreshed, she turned to the tree, saying, "My beautiful child,
how can I reward thee for the cool shelter of thy sweet-scented
branches?"

And the rose replied, "They call me the most beautiful of flowers. Make
me, I pray thee, even more lovely still, if it be in thy power to do
so."

Then the angel covered her with a coat of soft green moss, wherein she
might hide her blushing face from the gaze of the passers-by.

Now the rose is beloved by all the birds, especially by the nightingale,
the sweetest singer of them all. So great is his love that though

   " . . . rich the spot
     With every flower this earth has got,
   What is it to the nightingale
     If there his darling rose is not?"

It is said that when King Solomon, the wisest of kings, was reigning,
the birds of the air came to him one day and told him that they could
not sleep at night because of the weeping of the nightingale.

"But why do you weep?" inquired the King of the nightingale.

And the bird replied, "Once I was dumb, but the rose taught me to sing,
and now I cannot bear to see her rudely handled and her petals crushed
beneath the foot of man."

And indeed the fragrant rose is worthy of our love, for it is among the
most beautiful of our Heavenly Father's gifts to us.



THE HOLY HAY



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE HOLY HAY

"Little deeds of kindness,
  Little words of love,
Make our earth an Eden
  Like the heaven above."
         --_Dr. Brewer._

ALMOST two thousand years ago the infant Jesus was laid to sleep in the
manger of the inn at Bethlehem.

His bed was of fresh, sweet hay, among which were some fragments of a
little plant which had grown all unnoticed among the grass.

In wonder the tiny weed listened to the song of the angels as they sang
"the sweetest carol ever heard"; in wonder it saw the precious gifts
offered by the wise men and heard the praises of the shepherds who had
found their Saviour.

"There must be something I can do," whispered the little flower to
itself, and presently the pretty pink blossoms opened and gently twined
themselves into a crown around the baby head.

Some travelers standing near exclaimed "'Tis Holy Hay," and ever since
the pretty blossoms have borne the name of "Saint-foin;" and ever as
they reappear, year by year, in the fields and meadows they remind the
little ones of that land that even they can do something "to please the
King of Heaven."



THE SEARCH FOR GOLD



Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE SEARCH FOR GOLD

"The Marigold, that goes to bed with the sun,
And with him rises weeping."
           --_Shakespeare._

ABOUT four hundred years ago travelers returning to Europe brought back
wondrous tales of rich gold mines in the country of Mexico, and after a
while the people of Spain sent an army to fight the Mexicans and rob
them of their riches.

When the Spanish army reached the City of Mexico, which stood in the
midst of a great plain, they were struck with wonder at the beauty and
grandeur of all they saw. Gold seemed to be everywhere.

Gold, gold, gold! But not content with taking what they could get, these
cruel soldiers fell upon the Mexican nobles and put hundreds of them to
death for the sake of the rich jewels they wore.

After this there was a great battle, and the Mexican King was taken
prisoner and shut up in his own palace.

But the brave people of the country were so enraged by the cruelties of
their Spanish conquerors that they would not submit. Battle after battle
was fought, and the people were hunted down like wild beasts.

At last the King was taken out of his prison and placed in front of the
Spanish army, and there in the fierce heat of the fight he was slain.

Soon after the Mexicans fled, leaving thousands of brave men dead upon
the battlefield. Their royal standard of pure gold was captured and
Mexico was conquered. Then the Spaniards returned home, leaving only a
small army to guard the city.

In the following summer the vast plain surrounding the capital, upon
which the last great battle had been fought, was covered with a wealth
of golden blossoms.

Then the Mexicans said, "It is the 'Death-flower.' It has sprung from
the blood of our brothers slain in battle by the cruel Spaniards."

But the Spaniards called them Marigolds, or "Mary's gold," because they
said the mother of Jesus had given them the victory.



THE FLOWER FAIRIES


Fairy Tales from Flowerland
THE FLOWER FAIRIES

"Never tread beneath your feet
  Flowers fair and flowers sweet;
Touch us tenderly with care
  Flowers sweet and flowers fair."

ONE bright sunny morning little Mae went out into the fields to gather a
bunch of flowers for her mother. She went happily along, and soon came
to a meadow gay with yellow buttercups.

She picked a handful and then ran on, for she could see, just over the
next wall, the red blossoms of a field of poppies.

Some of these she gathered and put among her buttercups; but she did not
stay long in this field, for she knew that a little farther on there was
a stream, beside which grew the pretty blue forget-me-nots of which her
mother was so fond.

So Mae gathered a big bunch of these, and now held in her hand
buttercups, poppies, and forget-me-nots.

But after a while she began to get tired, so she sat down on the bank to
rest, and presently she heard a soft little voice say: "Do you like
butter?"

Mae looked quickly around, and saw before her a pretty little lady, with
a crown of gold upon her head and dressed all in yellow.

She was very much surprised, but being a polite little girl, replied:
"Yes, thank you; and will you please tell me your name?"

"Certainly," said the little lady. "My name is Fairy Yellow, and I am
Queen of the buttercups and daffodils, and all the yellow flowers; here
come my sisters, Fairy Red and Fairy Blue."

And there they were, two more little ladies, one dressed in red and the
other in blue.

"Good morning," said Mae.

"Good morning," said Fairy Red. "I live among the poppies, and all the
red flowers belong to me; poppies, and roses, and the holly-berries, and
many more besides."

Then Fairy Blue said, "I am mistress of the bluebells, and hare-bells,
and forget-me-nots, and all the sweet blue flowers."

"I think you are all very pretty," said Mae, "and I shall always think
of you when I look at the flowers; but now I must go home; so good-bye."

"But we are going with you," said the fairies, and to Mae's astonishment
each crept into a flower and nestled down comfortably; Fairy Yellow in a
buttercup, Fairy Red in a poppy, and Fairy Blue in a forget-me-not.

So Mae gathered up her flowers and set off home, and all the way the
fairies sang to her the sweetest songs.



      *      *      *      *      *



ALTEMUS' ILLUSTRATED
FAIRY TALES SERIES

An entirely new collection of Fairy Tales from various countries,
carefully edited for young people

Profusely Illustrated, Fifty Cents, Each

      *      *      *      *      *

THE MAGIC BED
A Book of East Indian Fairy Tales

East Indian Fairy Tales are the oldest in existence; some in this book
are more than two thousand years old.

Decorated Cloth, Illustrated, Fifty Cents

      *      *      *      *      *

THE CAT AND THE MOUSE
A Book of Persian Fairy Tales

Persia is the land of the "Thousand Tales." The initial story in this
book is illustrated from drawings by a Persian artist.

Decorated Cloth, Illustrated, Fifty Cents

      *      *      *      *      *

PHILADELPHIA
HENRY ALTEMUS COMPANY



Altemus' Illustrated Fairy Tales Series

      *      *      *      *      *

THE MAGIC JAWBONE
A Book of Fairy Tales from the South Sea Islands.

These stories are of men who lived long before the Maoris had ever heard
of white men. The chiefs used to tell these stories to the people.

Decorated Cloth, Illustrated, Fifty Cents

      *      *      *      *      *

THE MAN ELEPHANT
A Book of African Fairy Tales

These African stories are of a different kind; not so many princes and
princesses but more about animals--elephants, jackals and lions.

Decorated Cloth, Illustrated, Fifty Cents

      *      *      *      *      *

THE ENCHANTED CASTLE
A Book of Fairy Tales from Flowerland

Every boy and girl loves flowers and will be interested in the beautiful
stories the flowers have to tell.

Decorated Cloth, Illustrated, Fifty Cents

      *      *      *      *      *

PHILADELPHIA
HENRY ALTEMUS COMPANY

